(DOCS-8929) Add MWL workflow doc and images (#25262)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/metrics/guide/dynamic_quotas.md

If your monitor alerts, Datadog identifies the culprit, spiking metrics and asks permission via Slack to automatically apply [Metrics without Limits™][1] configurations to these metrics; reducing the usage and costs of these metrics on your behalf. 

Datadog’s Intelligent Query Insights provide us a list of the actively queried tags that we use to configure problematic metrics such that you are guaranteed the most cost-optimized configuration that doesn’t sacrifice visibility. Dynamic Metric Quotas help protect your organization from unintentional cardinality and budget overages and relieves your teams from having to play whack-a-mole to remediate metric volume spikes. Learn more about using Datadog's Estimated Usage Metrics to monitor your metric volume usage [here][10]

## Setup

### Prerequisites

1. A Datadog account with [Workflow Automation][3] enabled
2. The Datadog [Slack integration][5] installed

### Configure blueprint

#### How to build a per-metric quota

{{< img src="/metrics/guide/dynamic_quotas/automated_mwl_workflow_monitor.png" alt="The Make a decision tiles on the Datadog automated Metrics without Limits™ workflow blueprint" style="width:100%;" >}}

> 1. Open this [workflow blueprint][8], and click "Create from Blueprint".
> 2. Click on the green Monitor tile, and enable the "Automatic triggering" toggle. Also copy the **Mention handle** for this workflow -- you'll use this in Step 5 below.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Open this [workflow blueprint][8], and click ***Create from Blueprint***.
2. Click on the green Monitor tile, and enable the ***Automatic triggering*** toggle. 
3. Copy the workflow's ***Mention handle*** for use in step 5 below.
```

> 3. Create a [metric monitor][9]. In the **Define the metric** step, select ```datadog.estimated_usage.metrics.custom.by_metric``` as your metric name and choose the ```SUM BY``` space aggregator (recommendd monitor type - Threshold Alert, but you can also use Change or Anomaly Detection).

Author: ```suggestion
3. Create a [metric monitor][9]. In the **Define the metric** step, select `datadog.estimated_usage.metrics.custom.by_metric` as your metric name and choose the `SUM BY` space aggregator. It's recommend to use the `Threshold Alert` monitor type, but you can also use Change or Anomaly Detection.
```

> 4. Under ***Set alert conditions***, define your quota threshold number.
> 5. Under ***Configure notifications & automations***, you'll update the monitor notification message and include the Workflow handle from Step 2) above.
> 6. Select "Multi Alert" to send a notification for each culprit metric.
> 7. Click ***Create*** to create the metric monitor.
> 8. Click ***Save***.
> 9. Click ***Publish*** and ***Run*** to start automatically managing your custom metrics costs. 

Author: ```suggestion
4. Under **Set alert conditions**, define your quota threshold.
5. Under **Configure notifications & automations**, update the monitor notification message and include the Workflow handle from step 2 above.
6. Select ***Multi Alert*** to send a notification for each metric triggering the monitor.
7. Click ***Create*** to create the metric monitor.
8. Click ***Save***.
9. Click ***Publish*** and ***Run*** to start automatically managing your custom metrics costs. 
```

#### Configure Slack notifications

> The workflow blueprint contains several Slack integration tiles that need to be updated. Input the Slack channel or specific user(s) responsible for granting permission to Datadog to configure these metrics to reduce costs on your behalf.

Author: ```suggestion
The workflow blueprint contains the following Slack integration tiles that need to be updated:
- Make a decision
- Make a decision 1
- Send message
- Send message 1 

For each tile, input the Slack channel or specific users responsible for granting permission to Datadog to apply these cost-optimizing metric configurations on your behalf.
```

---
title: Dynamic Metric Quotas
further_reading:
- link: "/account_management/billing/custom_metrics/?tab=countrate"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Custom Metrics Billing"
- link: "/metrics/guide/custom_metrics_governance/"
  tag: "Guide"
  text: "Best Practice for Custom Metric Governance"
- link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/metrics-without-limits/"
  tag: "Blog"
  text: "Dynamically control your custom metrics volume with Metrics without Limits™"
algolia:
  tags: ['custom metrics']
is_beta: true
private: true
---

## Overview

{{< callout url="#" btn_hidden="true" header="Join the Preview!" >}}
  This feature is currently in Preview.
{{< /callout >}} 

> Datadog’s Dynamic Metrics Quotas offers you greater control over your custom metrics cost through custom metrics quotas for accounts, teams, or metric names. You define a metric monitor on your [estimated usage metrics][10], and when triggered the monitor launches a workflow through [Workflow Automation][3]. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Datadog’s Dynamic Metrics Quotas offers you greater control over your custom metrics cost through custom metrics quotas for accounts, teams, or metric names. You define a metric monitor on your [estimated usage metrics][10], and when triggered, the monitor launches a workflow through [Workflow Automation][3]. 
```

The workflow sends a Slack message asking for permission to automatically apply [Metrics without Limits™][1] configurations to the triggering metrics, reducing the usage and cost of these metrics on your behalf. These configuration updates are generated by Datadog’s intelligent query insights, which uses a list of the actively queried tags to ensure that your cost-optimized configuration doesn’t sacrifice visibility.

> See the [Best Practices Guide for Custom Metrics Governance][11] for more information about monitoring and prevention of overages and sudden spikes in your overall account’s custom metrics usage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the [Best Practices Guide for Custom Metrics Governance][11] for more information about monitoring and preventing overages and sudden spikes in your overall account’s custom metrics usage.
```

## Setup

### Prerequisites

1. A Datadog account with [Workflow Automation][3] enabled
2. The Datadog [Slack integration][5] installed

### Configure blueprint

{{< img src="/metrics/guide/dynamic_quotas/automated_mwl_workflow_monitor.png" alt="The Make a decision tiles on the Datadog automated Metrics without Limits™ workflow blueprint" style="width:100%;" >}}

#### Create a workflow from the blueprint

1. Open this [workflow blueprint][8], and click ***Create from Blueprint***.
2. Click the green Monitor tile on the workflow canvas, and enable the ***Automatic triggering*** toggle. 
3. Copy the workflow's ***Mention handle*** for use in the metric monitor steps described below.

#### Configure a metric monitor

1. Create a [metric monitor][9].

> 2. In the **Choose the detection method** section, it's recommended to use the `Threshold Alert` monitor type. You can also use Change or Anomaly Detection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In the **Choose the detection method** section, Datadog recommends using the `Threshold Alert` monitor type. You can also use Change or Anomaly Detection.
```

---
title: Dynamic Quotas for Metrics
further_reading:
- link: "/account_management/billing/custom_metrics/?tab=countrate"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Custom Metrics Billing"
- link: "/metrics/guide/custom_metrics_governance/"
  tag: "Guide"
  text: "Best Practice for Custom Metric Governance"
- link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/metrics-without-limits/"
  tag: "Blog"
  text: "Dynamically control your custom metrics volume with Metrics without Limits™"
algolia:
  tags: ['custom metrics']
is_beta: true
private: true
---

## Overview

> {{< callout url="#" btn_hidden="true">}}

Reviewer 2: Heh same comment for this beta banner - we're rebranding all the Betas to Preview so can the language match here?

Reviewer 3: @estherk15 Does the is_beta variable need to change to reflect Preview?

Author: @ijkaylin thanks for flagging that, updated in [85f99a9](https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/pull/25262/commits/85f99a92217e17cbb07208f26c0e39338a3dc356). 
@ouracheal the `is_beta` variable can be left as it is for now; this doesn't generate text on the page itself.

Reviewer 3: Thanks so much @buraizu !

  This feature is currently in Preview.
{{< /callout >}} 

> As your business scales, managing observability costs could become unruly quickly. Effective custom metrics governance should increase monitoring efficiency rather than cut visibility entirely. And it should not be a time-consuming, cumbersome process to protect your organization from unintentional billing overages. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As your business scales, managing observability costs could become unruly quickly. Effective custom metrics governance should increase monitoring efficiency rather than cut visibility entirely. And it should not be a time-consuming, cumbersome process to protect your organization from unintentional billing overages. As mentioned in Datadog's [Best Practices Guide for Custom Metrics Governance](https://docs.datadoghq.com/metrics/guide/custom_metrics_governance/#monitoring-and-prevention), you can easily monitor spikes in your custom metrics volumes. 

With **Datadog's Dynamic Metrics Quotas**, you now additionally have automatic spike remediation -- reducing unintentional metrics usage and custom metrics costs.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> By following Datadog's [Best Practices Guide for Custom Metrics Governance](https://docs.datadoghq.com/metrics/guide/custom_metrics_governance/#monitoring-and-prevention), you can monitor spikes in your custom metrics volumes. With **Datadog's Dynamic Metrics Quotas**, you now additionally have automatic spike remediation -- reducing unintentional metrics usage and thereby reduce costs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> Dynamic Metric Quotas, powered by [Datadog Workflows](https://www.datadoghq.com/product/workflow-automation/), allow you to define a quota / threshold of custom metrics at an account, team or metric name level through a metric monitor on your estimated custom metric usage metrics. If your usage exceeds your threshold of choice, causing the metric monitor to alert, Datadog identifies the culprit, spiking metrics and asks you via Slack notificatinon whether you give us permission to automatically apply Metrics without Limits configurations to reduce the usage and costs of these metrics on your behalf. Datadog's Intelligent query insights provide us a list of the actively queried tags that we use to configure problematic metrics such that you are guaranteed the most cost-optimized configuration that doesn't sacrifice visibility. Dynamic metric quotas help protect your organization from unintentional cardinality and budget overages and relieves your teams from having to play whack-a-mole to remediate metric volume spikes.

Reviewer 2: This is a huge block of text - let's break it up 
```suggestion
Dynamic Metric Quotas, powered by [Datadog Workflows](https://www.datadoghq.com/product/workflow-automation/), allow you to define a quota / threshold of custom metrics at an account, team or metric name level through a metric monitor on your estimated custom metric usage metrics.

If your monitor alerts, Datadog identifies the culprit, spiking metrics and asks permission via Slack to automatically apply Metrics without Limits configurations to these metrics; reducing the usage and costs of these metrics on your behalf. 

Datadog’s Intelligent query insights provide us a list of the actively queried tags that we use to configure problematic metrics such that you are guaranteed the most cost-optimized configuration that doesn’t sacrifice visibility. Dynamic metric quotas help protect your organization from unintentional cardinality and budget overages and relieves your teams from having to play whack-a-mole to remediate metric volume spikes.
```
Add link to estimated CM Usage metric doc as part of the last sentence above using this link: https://docs.datadoghq.com/account_management/billing/usage_metrics/

## Setup

### Prerequisites

1. A Datadog account with [Workflow Automation][3] enabled
2. The Datadog [Slack integration][5] installed

### Configure blueprint

#### How to build a per-metric quota

1. Open this [workflow blueprint][8], and click "Create from Blueprint"
2. Click on the green Monitor tile, and enable the "Automatic triggering" toggle. Also copy the **Mention handle** for this workflow -- you'll use this in Step 5 below
3. Create a [metric monitor][9]. In the **Define the metric** step, select ```datadog.estimated_usage.metrics.custom.by_metric``` as your metric name and choose the ```SUM BY``` space aggregator (recommendd monitor type - Threshold Alert, but you can also use Change or Anomaly Detection)
4. Under ***Set alert conditions***, define your quota threshold number

> {{< img src="/metrics/guide/dynamic_quotas/automated_mwl_workflow_monitor.png" alt="The Make a decision tiles on the Datadog automated Metrics without Limits™ workflow blueprint" style="width:100%;" >}}

Reviewer 2: Can we move this image right underneath the header "how to build a per-metric quota"?

8. Head back into the Workflow blueprint and click on the tiles titled ***Make a decision*** and ***Make a decision 1***. 

{{< img src="/metrics/guide/dynamic_quotas/slack_decisions_1.png" alt="The Make a decision tiles on the Datadog automated Metrics without Limits™ workflow blueprint" style="width:100%;" >}}

You'll be asked to choose the Slack workspace and either a Slack channel or specific user who will be notified when the monitor alerts. These are the users who will be asked to give Datadog permission to automatically reduce your metrics costs on your behalf

9. For the ***Send message*** and ***Send message 1*** tiles, you'll also need to select the Slack workspace. You'll also be asked whether you want to notify a channel or specific user after Datadog has made the cost saving configurations on your behalf

{{< img src="/metrics/guide/dynamic_quotas/slack_decisions_2.png" alt="The Send message tiles on the Datadog automated Metrics without Limits™ workflow blueprint" style="width:100%;" >}}

10. Click ***Save***.
11. Click ***Publish*** and ***Run*** to start automatically managing your custom metrics costs. 

#### Configure Slack notifications

> The workflow blueprint contains several Slack integration tiles that need to be updated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The workflow blueprint contains several Slack integration tiles that need to be updated. Input the Slack channel or specific user(s) responsible for granting permission to Datadog to configure these metrics to reduce costs on your behalf.
```

---

> title: Dynamic Quotas for Metrics

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Dynamic Metric Quotas
```

  tag: "Guide"
  text: "Best Practice for Custom Metric Governance"
- link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/metrics-without-limits/"
  tag: "Blog"
  text: "Dynamically control your custom metrics volume with Metrics without Limits™"
algolia:
  tags: ['custom metrics']
is_beta: true
private: true
---

## Overview

{{< callout url="#" btn_hidden="true" header="Join the Preview!" >}}
  This feature is currently in Preview.
{{< /callout >}} 

As your business scales, managing observability costs could become unruly quickly. Effective custom metrics governance should increase monitoring efficiency rather than cut visibility entirely. And it should not be a time-consuming, cumbersome process to protect your organization from unintentional billing overages. As mentioned in Datadog's [Best Practices Guide for Custom Metrics Governance](https://docs.datadoghq.com/metrics/guide/custom_metrics_governance/#monitoring-and-prevention), you can easily monitor spikes in your custom metrics volumes. 

With **Datadog's Dynamic Metrics Quotas**, you now additionally have automatic spike remediation -- reducing unintentional metrics usage and custom metrics costs.

> Dynamic Metric Quotas, powered by [Datadog Workflows](https://www.datadoghq.com/product/workflow-automation/), allow you to define a quota / threshold of custom metrics at an account, team or metric name level through a metric monitor on your estimated custom metric usage metrics.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Dynamic Metric Quotas, powered by [Datadog Workflows](https://www.datadoghq.com/product/workflow-automation/), allow you to define a custom metrics quota at an account level (or team/metric name level) via a metric monitor on your estimated custom metric usage metrics.
```

> If your monitor alerts, Datadog identifies the culprit, spiking metrics and asks permission via Slack to automatically apply Metrics without Limits configurations to these metrics; reducing the usage and costs of these metrics on your behalf. 

Reviewer 2: Please add the TM to MWL and a link to the metrics without limits doc

> Datadog’s Intelligent query insights provide us a list of the actively queried tags that we use to configure problematic metrics such that you are guaranteed the most cost-optimized configuration that doesn’t sacrifice visibility. Dynamic metric quotas help protect your organization from unintentional cardinality and budget overages and relieves your teams from having to play whack-a-mole to remediate metric volume spikes. (Learn more about using Datadog's Estimated Usage Metrics to monitor your metric volume usage [here][10])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Datadog’s Intelligent Query Insights provide us a list of the actively queried tags that we use to configure problematic metrics such that you are guaranteed the most cost-optimized configuration that doesn’t sacrifice visibility. Dynamic Metric Quotas help protect your organization from unintentional cardinality and budget overages and relieves your teams from having to play whack-a-mole to remediate metric volume spikes. Learn more about using Datadog's Estimated Usage Metrics to monitor your metric volume usage [here][10]
```

## Setup

### Prerequisites

1. A Datadog account with [Workflow Automation][3] enabled
2. The Datadog [Slack integration][5] installed

### Configure blueprint

#### How to build a per-metric quota

{{< img src="/metrics/guide/dynamic_quotas/automated_mwl_workflow_monitor.png" alt="The Make a decision tiles on the Datadog automated Metrics without Limits™ workflow blueprint" style="width:100%;" >}}

> 1. Open this [workflow blueprint][8], and click "Create from Blueprint"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Open this [workflow blueprint][8], and click "Create from Blueprint".
```

> 2. Click on the green Monitor tile, and enable the "Automatic triggering" toggle. Also copy the **Mention handle** for this workflow -- you'll use this in Step 5 below

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Click on the green Monitor tile, and enable the "Automatic triggering" toggle. Also copy the **Mention handle** for this workflow -- you'll use this in Step 5 below.
```

> 3. Create a [metric monitor][9]. In the **Define the metric** step, select ```datadog.estimated_usage.metrics.custom.by_metric``` as your metric name and choose the ```SUM BY``` space aggregator (recommendd monitor type - Threshold Alert, but you can also use Change or Anomaly Detection)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Create a [metric monitor][9]. In the **Define the metric** step, select ```datadog.estimated_usage.metrics.custom.by_metric``` as your metric name and choose the ```SUM BY``` space aggregator (recommendd monitor type - Threshold Alert, but you can also use Change or Anomaly Detection).
```

> 4. Under ***Set alert conditions***, define your quota threshold number

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Under ***Set alert conditions***, define your quota threshold number.
```

> 5. Under ***Configure notifications & automations***, you'll update the monitor notification message and include the Workflow handle from Step 2) above

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Under ***Configure notifications & automations***, you'll update the monitor notification message and include the Workflow handle from Step 2) above.
```

6. Select "Multi Alert" to send a notification for each culprit metric.

> 7. Click ***Create*** to create the metric monitor

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
7. Click ***Create*** to create the metric monitor.
```

8. Head back into the Workflow blueprint and click on the tiles titled ***Make a decision*** and ***Make a decision 1***. 

{{< img src="/metrics/guide/dynamic_quotas/slack_decisions_1.png" alt="The Make a decision tiles on the Datadog automated Metrics without Limits™ workflow blueprint" style="width:100%;" >}}

> You'll be asked to choose the Slack workspace and either a Slack channel or specific user who will be notified when the monitor alerts. These are the users who will be asked to give Datadog permission to automatically reduce your metrics costs on your behalf

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You'll be asked to choose the Slack workspace and either a Slack channel or specific user who will be notified when the monitor alerts. These are the users who will be asked to give Datadog permission to automatically reduce your metrics costs on your behalf.
```

> 9. For the ***Send message*** and ***Send message 1*** tiles, you'll also need to select the Slack workspace. You'll also be asked whether you want to notify a channel or specific user after Datadog has made the cost saving configurations on your behalf

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
9. For the ***Send message*** and ***Send message 1*** tiles, you'll also need to select the Slack workspace. You'll also be asked whether you want to notify a channel or specific user after Datadog has made the cost saving configurations on your behalf.
```

{{< img src="/metrics/guide/dynamic_quotas/slack_decisions_2.png" alt="The Send message tiles on the Datadog automated Metrics without Limits™ workflow blueprint" style="width:100%;" >}}

10. Click ***Save***.
11. Click ***Publish*** and ***Run*** to start automatically managing your custom metrics costs. 

> #### Configure Slack notifications

Reviewer 2: Is there a reason we still need this section? you walk folks through the decision points where they need to add the channel or user(s) that grant permission

Reviewer 3: Agreed, steps 8 - 9 and their images aren't necessary -- will remove.
